Parallel symmetric interval hull (#905)
JuliaReach/LazySets.jl: docs/src/man/parallel_approximations.md

# Parallel Approximations

A subset of the approximation algorithms are implemented in parallel in the 
`LazySets.Parallel` module. In order to use parallel versions of the algorithms,
you can write:

```@example
using LazySets
import LazySets.Parallel

# call a method implemented in parallel, for example:
S = Ball2(ones(100), 1.0)
Parallel.box_approximation(S)
```

Note that after importing or using `LazySets.Parallel`, the version of the function
used must be fully qualified, eg. `LazySets.Approximations.box_approximation` for the

> sequential function or `LazySets.Parallel.box_approximation` for the parallel version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sequential version or `LazySets.Parallel.box_approximation` for the parallel version.
```

The parallelization strategy that is available uses processes. To set the number

> of processes use the flag `-p N` at julia startup, where `N` is the number of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
of processes `N`, use the flag `-p N` at julia startup. For example, do
```

> desired processes. For example, do

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```julia
$ julia -p 4
```
to launch `4` additional local worker julia processes. Use the keyword `auto`,
as in
```julia
$ julia -p auto
```

> to launch as many workers as the number of local CPU threads.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to launch as many workers as the number of local CPU cores.
```
I saw that "CPU threads" is used in the Julia manual, but I find it wrong.

Author: in `$julia -h` it says

```julia
 -p, --procs {N|auto}      Integer value N launches N additional local worker processes
                           "auto" launches as many workers as the number of local CPU threads (logical cores)
```

info for the local machine is got with `Base.Sys.CPU_THREADS` and
and with `InteractiveUtils.versioninfo(verbose=true)`

Reviewer: Okay, [it is still wrong](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thread_(computing)), but truth is relative :smile:

Author: that article mentions logical cores here:

> The kernel can assign one thread to each logical core in a system (because each processor splits itself up into multiple logical cores if it supports multithreading, or only supports one logical core per physical core if it does not), and can swap out threads that get blocked. However, kernel threads take much longer than user threads to be swapped. 

in other words, there is a distinction between `local CPU cores` and `logical CPU cores`.

Author: Incidentally, there's a recent Discourse thread on this topic:
https://discourse.julialang.org/t/parallel-good-practice/17486/7

```@contents
Pages = ["parallel_approximations.md"]
Depth = 3
```

```@meta
DocTestSetup = quote
    using LazySets, LazySets.Parallel
end
```

## Parallel interval hulls 

> Consider the symmetric interval hull approximation

Reviewer: Suggestion:
```suggestion
Consider the [symmetric interval hull approximation](@ref Symmetric interval hull)
```
and remove `, a modified version of that given in the Introduction, and` below?

below.

```julia
using LazySets
using SparseArrays

# define an nxn tridiagonal matrix
A(n) = sparse(diagm(0 => fill(0.05, n), -1 => fill(-1, n-1), 1 => fill(-1, n-1)))

# step size and initial set
δ = 0.1
X0(n) = Ball2(ones(n), 0.1)

# input coefficients matrix (nx2 matrix with coefficients from -1 to 1)
b(n) = vcat(range(-1, stop=1, length=n))
B(n) = [b(n) b(n)] 
U = BallInf(zeros(2), 1.2)

# lazy matrix exponential
eAδ(n) = SparseMatrixExp(A(n) * δ)

# set that we want to overapproximate with an interval hull
Y(n) = ConvexHull(eAδ(n) * X0(n) ⊕ (δ * B(n) * U), X0(n))
```

The set `Y(n)` is parametric in the system's dimension `n`, to facilitate
benchmarking. We will explore the increase in the computational cost by increasing
the dimension `n`, and compare the sequential algorithm with the parallel algorithm.

Given the lazy set `Y(n)`, we want to calculate the symmetric interval hull, which
corresponds to finding the smallest `n`-dimensional hyperrectangle that contains
the set `Y(n)` and is symmetric with respect to the origin. Notice that this operation
is inherently parallel, since one can evaluate the support function of `Y` independently

> on each dimension from `1` to `n`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in each dimension from `1` to `n`.
```

```julia
using BenchmarkTools

for n in [50, 100, 500, 1000]
    @btime res = Approximations.symmetric_interval_hull(Y($n));
end

  60.690 ms (11653 allocations: 25.89 MiB)
  140.726 ms (23317 allocations: 54.16 MiB)
  2.211 s (116529 allocations: 381.27 MiB)
  11.527 s (234505 allocations: 1.01 GiB)
```

For the parallel benchmark, we start Julia with 4 processes with the command
`$ julia -p 4` and call `LazySets.Parallel.symmetric_interval_hull(Y(n))`. 

```julia
import LazySets.Parallel

for n in [50, 100, 500, 1000]
    @time LazySets.Parallel.symmetric_interval_hull(Y(n));
end

  0.008020 seconds (2.89 k allocations: 170.063 KiB)
  0.016781 seconds (3.63 k allocations: 273.453 KiB)
  0.361447 seconds (11.24 k allocations: 2.505 MiB)
  2.486827 seconds (22.24 k allocations: 8.762 MiB)
```

In the following table we summarize the speedup.

|n|Sequential (s)| Parallel `p=4` (s) | Speedup|
|---|----|----|----|
|50| 0.061  | 0.008 | 7.62|
|100| 0.14 | 0.016 | 8.75 |
|500| 2.2  | 0.36 | 6.11|
|1000| 11.5 | 2.48 | 4.63|

We haven't used `@btime` macro for the parallel benchmark, because it gives
`ERROR: SystemError: shm_open() ... Too many open files`.

!!! note

>     The results in this section were obtained with a standard MacBook Pro laptop

Reviewer: I do not think this should be a `!!! note` block.
